# Exposure-on-Intertidal-Faunal-Diversity

Exposure to wave action has significant impacts on global faunal communities, intensifying stressors and complicating essential behaviours such as movement and feeding. Intertidal macrofauna are extremely susceptible to these stressors. The aim of this study was to investi-gate how exposure impacts the diversity and composition of these intertidal macrofaunal communities on the northern shore of Galway Bay. It investigated the potential use of time of first arrival (TFA) as an index for species abundance. Baited remote underwater video sys-tems were deployed on sandy shores across two exposure levels and fauna observed in the footage were identified to species level. The maximum abundance of each species in a single video frame (MaxN) and their TFA were recorded.  PERMANOVA, SIMPER analysis and diversity indices were calculated to examine the differences in the composition and diversity of faunal communities at each exposure level. The composition differed significantly between exposure levels with increases in the abundance of opportunistic feeders such as common shore crabs (Carcinus maenas), two-spotted gobies (Gobiusculus flavescens) and sand gobies (Pomatoschistus minutus) at sheltered sites. Increased species richness was recorded at shel-tered sites. No significant difference was found in the evenness or total number of individuals between exposure levels. A significant negative correlation was found between TFA and MaxN which suggests that it could be a useful index for abundance. The findings highlight the significant influence of wave exposure on intertidal faunal assemblages and suggest TFA could be a useful index for species abundance. 
